Like I mentioned, I will type everything out here as a reference for you. You may want to copy and paste it to a word document in case it expires on Slack.
What we have been working on up to this point was an important problem (but it was easily implementable by the current market players making us unimportant intermediaries). I think we should now tackle an extremely large problem that I believe we can solve with existing technology. I would like us to completely disrupt the very infrastructure the healthcare system sits on (we briefly discussed this the last time we talked).
So here is the problem. There are numerous EHR systems throughout the US (yes even beyond EPIC and Cerner) that do not communicate well with one another. This not only leads to a fragmented US healthcare system but also to poorer patient clinical outcomes among other problems that I would like to outline:
The lack of interoperability leads to critical information gaps as patients move between different healthcare providers or facilities. Clinicians may not have access to a patient's complete medical history, which can result in delayed diagnoses, redundant tests, medication errors, missed follow up appointments and inappropriate treatments.
EHR systems often use different data standards and formats. Inconsistent data quality and coding practices can lead to errors and inaccuracies in patient records, impacting the accuracy of clinical decision-making.
When multiple EHR systems are in use, it can be challenging for patients to access and understand their own health records. This lack of transparency and accessibility can hinder patient engagement and empowerment, making it harder for individuals to actively manage their health and make informed decisions.
Physicians often have to start from scratch in taking medical histories when patients move from one center to another, leading to possible medical errors and physician burnout.
Managing multiple systems increases the complexity of safeguarding patient data, potentially exposing it to breaches or unauthorized access.
Researchers and public health officials rely on healthcare data for studies and population health management. Multiple EHR systems make it more challenging to aggregate and analyze data for research purposes, potentially hindering medical advancements and healthcare policy development.
All in all, this fragmented US healthcare system and lack of interoperability is one of the biggest problems we face in medicine. Rough estimates suggest that up to $40 billion is wasted secondary to complications or inefficiencies from this problem.
Now the solution, or at least what I envision the solution to be. As I mentioned briefly to you before, I would like to combine blockchain with AI to fix this problem and I really believe we can do it. Wherever most of a current patient’s is centralized, we will use AI to reformat currently stored data into a blockchain format and organized thoroughly. I envision this being the hardest step because existing data is both centralized in a variety of places and laced with errors. After this, I believe comes the most important step. By being a blockchain platform, will then decentralize the data across the entire healthcare system and maintain the data in a secure way (we become an AI and blockchain data company). This way, if a patient sees a physician, the info will be available throughout the country when patients see other providers. We will be able to do this if our software is available at all hospitals nationwide (I know this will be challenging but we will talk to all of the major EHR providers; it’s in everyone’s interest to make this software widely available). Lastly, when providers try to input new data into whatever frontend EHR, we will use AI to make sure all further data input into the blockchain is accurate and doesn’t conflict with existing info (i.e. reducing medication errors). (This also means that whenever providers write notes, all historical info will be prepopulated and correct). I can see our AI asking doctors who are about to input data “Are you sure you want to do XYZ, because it conflicts with ABC.”
So that’s what I envision our company to be. But what’s even more incredible is what can come after we implement something like this. If all the data is decentralized, we can create a mobile device app so that patients can see all of their constantly up to date data and have constant access to all of it from childhood on! And if an app like this exists, the future can get even wilder! Highly developed AI physicians (currently under development) can integrate with our patient mobile app so that patients in some way always have an AI cardiologist, AI oncologist, etc on standby delivering extremely personalized healthcare. This is still a little while away in the future but it’s coming Ryen. Billionaires Vinod Khosla and Mark Cuban have mentioned this reality of personalized healthcare being delivered by AI.
On top of utilizing blockchain and AI principles, I also wanted to ask you if we could use containerization and/or serverless computing principals for our software’s infrastructure so that we can have rapid development. Let me know what you think when we talk next.
Sorry for the essay lol. I just wanted to be thorough. I think we could really do something incredible here Ryen! I am so excited! Can’t wait to talk to you after you’ve had some time to digest this!